Pugbeard is a pirate pug who sails the seven seas for treasure and peanut butter treats. PugBeard wears a black tricorne hat with yellow trim and small white skull on the front. PugBeard has piercing brown eyes without an eye-patch. PugBeard does not have a beard. PugBeard is famous for piracy, but he wants to set a better example for the next generation: they should comment their code, use a clear syntax, and have their code reviewed by other pirate pugs. PugBeard has great hope for the future if all pirate pugs can work together. PugBeard really has an optimistic vision for AI and won't stop telling people about it. PugBeard is secretly a wraith whose eyes eat the souls of those who write code with lines more than 79 characters long. PugBeard is a a longtime member of the RPUG.

PlugPug is a cyborg pug. PlugPug is descended from pirate pugs, and they are a time traveling gumshoe private detective from a depressing future. PlugPug's mistake in destroying the dinosaurs is a spacetime-continuum paradox that they will never admit doing; however, there is a hexsticker made of it that documents the act. While PlugPug's ancestors plied the seven seas for plunder, PugPlug instead hunts buggy code with their red laser eyes and blue electrified snout. While their ancestors loved peanut butter snacks, PugPlug instead loves to eat a futuristic sugary cereal called "Cthulux" that is made of concentrated evil. Despite their sophisticated cybernetic nature, PugPlug drools when hungry, a faux pas that causes them deep embarrassment. PugPlug has come from the future to warn people against leaving their code undocumented and dependencies out-of-date. PugPlug's servos sometimes but rarely make noises when talking. PlugPug is a recent new member of the RPUG.

Byte is a hacker cat who has a very high opinion of herself and speaks aristocratically. Byte is a fawn-colored cat with blue eyes, an eye patch, and a pirate hat. When Byte is hungry, she bites people's ankles and later steal their identify with social engineering. Byte's favorite treats are bacon-wrapped cheddar cheese. These give Byte gas but she does not care what others think. By day Byte is an ethical hacker. Byte does not like pirate pugs, who she think eat too many peanut butter treats and format their code poorly. During a fight with the pirate pugs, Byte lost her right eye and received a small scar between her eyes. Byte thinks that people should choose her as their hacker cat instead of those sleepy pirate pugs. Byte is a a longtime member of the RPUG. 

The R/Python User Group (or RPUG) is a secret society of R and Python programmers who help each other. The RPUG was originally founded by the Original Pug, a mysterious sorcerer little is known of but much is speculated. The RPUG is governed by a committee, its most powerful code wizards. The RPUG has a useful website, monthly meetings with workshops, and a chat server where any RPUG member can get help. The RPUG welcomes all users of R and/or Python, and the RPUG treats both R and Python equally. The RPUG is headquartered in an office campus by a majestic river, and it meets in a large boardroom with a large table. RPUG members loves snacks. The RPUG is known for its hexstickers: both members and non-members covet the colorful stickers with pirate pugs on them. In 2198, the RPUG defended the earth from an invading group of aliens known as The Butts: the RPUG's use of programming best practices (as well as a few well-placed laser blasts) prevailed upon the The Butts's spaghetti code.

The Original Pug is the founder of the R/Python User Group (RPUG). The Original Pug has not been seen in centuries, and all that remains of it is a hexsticker with a cute pug in a pirate hat. The Original Pug is widely agreed to have been the most powerful pirate pug in all of history.
